---
title: Languages
description: Zen Cart Languages Admin Page 
category: admin_pages
weight: 20
---

This page allows you to add additional language(s) in order to internationalize the output generated by Zen Cart.
## New Language

To add a new language, click on the _new language_ button. A form will appear. Enter the information, then click on the _insert_ button to add the new language. Click on the _cancel_ button if you change your mind.

### Name

This is the name of the language, probably best as expressed _in itself_, e.g. Francais for French, Español for Spanish, Deutsch for German, etc.

### Code

This is the two-letter ISO 639 two-letter language code, e.g. en for English, fr for Francais, es for Español, etc. If you don't know the code, you can find it on Wikipedia [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes).

### Image

This would be a small icon used to identify the language. This would most likely be a gif image of the typical flag for some country commonly associated with that language. This should be located in the `/includes/languages/YOURLANGUAGE/images`

### Directory

This directory is where the translated php source files for this language are contained. For example, enter '*english*' the directory for the English language is located at 
`/includes/languages/english`. 

### Sort order

This is the order that the languages are to appear in. Lower numbers are shown higher on the screen.

### Set as default

Check this box if this is the default language for this site.

When you finish entering data, click on the _insert_ button to add the new language. Click on the _cancel_ button to discard this form.

If you have not yet [installed the language pack](#installing-a-language-pack) you will see the warning message 

    >  <i class="fa fa-2x fa-hand-stop-o"></i> MISSING LANGUAGE FILES OR DIRECTORIES ... YOURLANGUAGE YOURLANGUAGE

## Edit Language

If you need to change the information about an existing language, click on the named language so that the right arrow appears in the Action column, then click on the _edit_ button. The fields on the screen are the same for adding a language. When finished editing, click on the _update_ button to save the changes, or click on _cancel_ to discard them.

## Delete Language

To remove a language, click on the named language so that the right arrow appears in the Action column, then click on the _Delete_ button. If this is not the default language, you will be asked to confirm. Click on the _delete_ button again to delete the language, or _cancel_ if you do not wish to delete this language. If this is the default language, only the _cancel_ button will appear, as you cannot delete the default language.

## Installing a Language Pack

Once you have added a new language, you will need to get the language pack files that 
correspond to that language.  Language packs may be found in 
the [Zen Cart Downloads](https://www.zen-cart.com/downloads.php?do=cat&id=6).

Language packs are structured to correspond to your cart folders, so you can just 
rename the admin folder if one exists and then upload all the files. 

If you're not familiar how to upload a Zen Cart plugin, follow the instructions on 
[how to install a plugin](/user/plugins/how_to_install_a_plugin/). 

## Trouble Shooting a Language Pack

- Blank white screen (on storefront) after language pack installed.

    There are likely to be missing language files. Check the logs directory for `myDEBUG-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS-nnnnnn.log` files and look for `failed to open stream: No such file or directory`. Before it you should see a file path of the missing file. `--> PHP Warning: require_once(**YOURSITE/includes/languages/YOURLANGUAGE/MISSINGFILE.php**): failed to open stream: No such file or directory in YOURSITE/includes/languages/YOURLANGUAGE.php on line 607` find the file in the english language folder YOURSITE/includes/languages/english/MISSINGFILE.php and copy to your language folder.
**NOTE** - You may have to repeat this task multiple times for older version language packs.

- Capitalised titles displayed in english
    If you get sections named displayed as capitalised title with underscore between e.g.`HEADING_TITLE` again it will be because language files have not been included in the original language pack. Finding these can be more tricky as the same title may be used in multiple places. Start by loging into your admin page. Then select `Tools > Developers Tool Kit` in the tool kit enter the name of the missing variable and search `All Language Files for ENGLISH - Catalog/Admin` this should produce a list of places where the variable is defined. 
    - If it is only one place then transfer that file from the english location to YOURLANGUAGE equivalent location
    - If there a multiple listing then go back to the storefront and add `&language=en` to then end of the URL or if `&language=YOURLANGUAGECODE` is already present change YOURLANGUAGECODE to `en` refresh the page and look at the correct wording. Use this wording to find the correct file and copy the file from the english location to YOURLANGUAGE equivalent location