---
title: Miscellaneous Email Questions
description: About email in Zen Cart 
category: email 
weight: -1 
---

{{< misc >}}

---
### How do I make Zen Cart send email through GMail? 

This topic is covered in [Using External SMTP Servers](/user/email/external_smtp_servers/#google-mail--gmail). 

---
### How can I add a message to my order confirmation emails? 

In Zen Cart 1.5.6, a plugin called [Order Message](https://www.zen-cart.com/downloads.php?do=file&id=2200) was pulled into the Zen Cart core.  To use it, 
edit the file 
`includes/languages/english/YOURTEMPLATE/email_extras.php`
and set the defined constant 
`EMAIL_ORDER_MESSAGE` with your message.  

If your Zen Cart version is prior to 1.5.6, you may still use the Order Message plugin. 

--- 
### How can I email all my customers about a sale or promotion? 

Sending large numbers of emails from your own hosting account 
is no longer recommended.  
See [Newsletters](/user/email/newsletters) for alternatives. 

---
### Where are the emails sent by Zen Cart stored? 

By default, sent emails are not stored.  You may however turn on saving emails
using setting the [Email Archiving Active](/user/admin_pages/configuration/configuration_emailoptions/#email_archiving_active) configuration value to *true*, and you may view stored emails using [Email Archive Manager](/user/email/email_archive_manager/). 

**NOTE:** This `email_archive` table, where emails are stored, grows large
quickly, so be sure to cull it frequently. 

---

### How do I prevent my email from being treated like spam? 

The most common cause of email being treated as spam stems from how your **webserver** is configured to send mail. By default, emails sent with the Transport set to PHP will appear as a user called "nobody@yourdomain.com" or something similar. Most spam filters will look at that and assume that those emails were generated by spam bots and thus the message is dumped without any further consideration.

Other causes include messages which have ALL UPPERCASE letters in their Subject field. Don't do that. You can usually set the subject line for individual emails in your Zen Cart language files.

1.  change your email transport method to "SMTPAUTH" (or "sendmail -f" as a last resort). This will cause the messages to appear as they are coming from "you" instead of as coming from your server's unsigned PHP.
2.  the option 'Emails must send from known domain?' should be set to True. This will cause e-mail providers see that it is coming from someplace legitimate and not filter it as spam. And, more specifically, your own webserver will not ignore it because it will now appear as legitimately coming from itself (whom it "knows"), rather than from a 3rd-party.
3.  AOL and Hotmail dump emails originating from server/client IP addresses that fail DNS reverse lookup. You should talk to your webhost to ensure that your webserver and hosting account / domain are properly configured with a PTR or DNS reverse lookup. If those words/terms don't mean anything to you, simply talk to your hosting company about them!

---


### How do I buid HTML-formatted Email in other languages?

The english HTML emails are built from the files in the /email folder. If you have other languages, you'll need to create your own HTML email template files and put them into subfolders named according to the 2-letter language code.

ie:

*   /email/de/
*   /email/es/
*   /email/fr/

---

### Why Do Emails Not Show in HTML format?

HTML-formatted emails are SENT *only* when ALL of the following conditions are met:

*   HTML/MIME format is enabled in your admin
*   Customer has elected to choose HTML-formatted emails
*   You have the HTML email templates present in the /email/ folder of your site, and haven't changed permissions in any way that would prevent PHP from reading them (defaults are recommended)

Occasionally even though the email may be SENT in HTML format, it may ARRIVE without the HTML section displaying properly, for a few possible reasons:

1.  your hosting company's webserver stripped the HTML out because it appeared to violate a spam rule
2.  the recipient's hosting company stripped the HTML out because it appeared to violate a spam rule
3.  the recipient is using a free webmail-based email reader which alters the HTML content in a way that prevents your content from being displayed as desired
4.  you composed the email (altered the HTML in the template) to use advanced XHTML/CSS that's not supported by the recipient's email client
5.  the recipient is using an email program which doesn't render the HTML portion properly
6.  the recipient has changed their email program settings to disallow HTML content, either as a general rule or perhaps only from senders whom they've not whitelisted as known senders

Be sure to review the "Diagnosing Problems" section above for other tips related to potential delivery problems.


---
<!-- please keep this at the end --> 
{{< faq_questions >}}

